As tensions soar in the Middle East,
the Iranian navy has deployed a warship
to the Red Sea.
This movement comes
just a few days after the US
military sank
three boats belonging to the Houthis.
The Houthis are an Iranian backed group
from Yemen
who have been targeting
commercial vessels in the Red Sea.
Let's bring in CNN's
Natasha Bertrand,
who was following all of this for us.
From the Pentagon.
So Natasha,
how is the Pentagon responding to this?
Well, Rachel,
a defense official tells us
that they are monitoring the situation
closely, of course, because it comes amid
all of the rising tensions
in the Red Sea with the Houthis,
which are an Iran backed group.
Iran does
provide support
and intelligence to the Houthis,
according to the White House.
And so the US is monitoring
this very closely.
However, it is important to note
that this is not the first time
that Iran has deployed
assets to the Red Sea.
They operate there pretty regularly.
But the US, of course, is eyeing this
because of the fact that they say that
Iran has been providing the Houthis
with the kind of maritime intelligence
that they need to select
targets in the Red Sea as they are hit
commercial vessels there.
There have been
over 100 attacks
by these Iran backed Houthi militants
on commercial vessels in the Red Sea
since really in the last month,
a month and a half.
And so
the uptick that we have seen
is really remarkable
and it has really ensnared
international shipping and commerce.
The fact that Iran is now there
just a day or two after the US shot down,
fired on small boats
that contained Houthi militants,
sinking them and killing
all of those Houthi
militants on board could be seen
as a sign
that Iran is trying to present
a show of force to the Americans.
Of course, who are operating in the area
because if you'll recall,
the US also set up
a multinational maritime
task force
to bolster security
in the Red Sea,
to try to prevent the Houthis
from launching these attacks
and to escort vessels
that are transiting the areas
that they feel safe are going up
and through the Suez Canal
so that international shipping
can kind of get back on track here.
So this is not right now
being seen by the Pentagon
as a direct threat to the US
or any of its allies.
Instead, they are watching it
very closely
they do not necessarily think
that Iran is going to conduct
any kind of provocations here,
but both sides
obviously trying to send a message
to the other there that they are
in the region.
They can respond
if and when they deem it is necessary
for help.
Now, with huge implications
that that region is
that channels an area
12% of global commerce
travel through
Israel has huge implications
Natasha Bertrand live for us there
at the Pentagon. Natasha, thank you.
All right.
Joining us now, CNN
military analyst,
former NATO supreme allied
commander General Wesley Clark.
General, this is the Iranian naval vessel
that is being deployed.
I can show you where it's going.
It's going in the Red Sea,
particularly down in this area right here
where there's been a lot of activity
the last several days.
What is the presence of this
Iranian vessel change?
Sure it is.
First of all, it's going to collect
intelligence on U.S.
activities in the area.
It's going to serve as a deterrent
or they believe it will deter U.S.
actions against the Houthis.
It will certainly inhibit us
in the sense of maneuvering.
It's one more factor
for us to consider it.
It raises tensions in the region.
It shows Iran's hegemonic
aspirations, demonstrates those.
And we'll just have to see where
this goes, John.
If the Houthis say okay,
we got the Iranians here
now, we're not going to interfere
with the shipping. Fine.
So who do you say now?
We got the Iranians here.
We can do more to interdict the shipping
Iran has got to get its destroyer
out of the way
as we protect the shipping.
If that destroyer gets in the way,
if it interferes with the shipping,
if it supports the Houthis,
then that is a challenge
that will have to be met
by the United States militarily.
Well,
if the watches develop
over the next several days,
let's talk
about what's happening in Ukraine,
because Russia has continued its air
assault on this nation,
including the capital of Kiev,
where we have seen
the destruction inside the capital city.
Now, it's
believed that these attacks carried out
with a number
of different types of weapons.
But one thing that the Russians are using
are these airborne hypersonic missiles,
which can deliver quite a blow
certainly to civilian areas here.
Talk to us about what
these weapons
in the fact that Russia is using them.
Well, first of all, these weapons can be
shot down by Patriot missiles,
but the Russians are using them
in combination with other
devices, with ballistic missiles,
with the Iranian supplied drones
and other things.
And they're coming at such a way
from such directions
as to basically overwhelm
the Ukrainians defense management system.
If you could get the Patriots
in the right position,
if you could
choose them at the right time,
they could stop these missiles.
But there aren't enough Patriots
to handle all of the requirements there.
So this is an ongoing struggle.
It's going to cause a lot of pain
and grief in Ukraine.
And the United States and the West
have got to provide
the assets, more assets to enable Ukraine
to handle this.
And that's very difficult
because we're not producing
and we don't have any excess
Patriot batteries right now
as long as we're talking about air power.
We've learned now
that since this latest
round of air attacks from Russia began,
the polls have said in Poland,
they've said that some of the missiles
have flown over Polish airspace
And now Poland says it's going to deploy
some of its warplanes over its country
in its own defense.
Is this posturing, General?
What's going on here?
I think it is posturing.
I think it's a political move
by the government in Warsaw.
I don't think that the Russians
intend to strike Poland,
as that's an entirely different scenario
if they're going to do that.
But on the other hand,
Poland is showing its concern
and assuring it to shore
not only its domestic population,
but to the other members of NATO
and particularly to Germany, France
and the United States.
It's part of Europe asking
the United States to lead.
Do more, get reinforcement equipment
to Ukraine to help Ukraine fight Russia
in Ukraine.
It's all part of the diplomatic
signaling going on right now.
General Wesley Clark, as always,
we appreciate your time.
Thank you so much for being with
us today. Happy New Year.